# Hotel Revenue Exploratory Data Analysis and Visualization
 This is a Portfolio EDA guided project available on YouTube.

## Introduction
This Hotel Revenue Exploratory Data Analysis project is based on the guided project provided by a Youtube channel named 'Absent Data'. The dataset is provided by the Youtuber. In this project, we will be looking at the revenue generated, parking requirements and other variables.

## Data Exploration using SQL
### Creating Database
We need a database to store our data in the server. Here, I am using MySQL Server and MySQL Workbench to query the database. Created a database named 'hotel_revenue' and imported three years of reservation data using Table import wizard.

    CREATE DATABASE hotel_revenue;

### Creating a Temporary table
To ease up the analysis, created a temporary table named 'revenue' by adding all three years of reservation data using UNION and joining dicount & meal cost to that using LEFT JOIN as we need to preserve all the data from the left most table.

    CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE revenue AS (
    (SELECT *
    FROM (SELECT * FROM hotel_revenue.revenue2018
    UNION
    SELECT * FROM hotel_revenue.revenue2019
    UNION
    SELECT * FROM hotel_revenue.revenue2020) reservation
    LEFT JOIN hotel_revenue.market_discount
    ON reservation.market_segment = market_discount.segment
    LEFT JOIN hotel_revenue.meal_cost
    ON reservation.meal = meal_cost.meal_type));

### Revenue
First we will look at the revenue generated by year using the following query.

    SELECT arrival_date_year, ROUND(SUM(((stays_in_weekend_nights + stays_in_week_nights) * (adr - adr*Discount)) +       ((adults + children)*cost)), 2) AS revenue
    FROM hotel_revenue.revenue
    WHERE is_canceled != 1
    GROUP BY arrival_date_year;

It's understandable that the year 2019 having the most revenue as it's the only year with entire year of data while the other years had few months less.